README.md, before:

# The new probe.rs webpage

## Goals

- Create a more appealing frontpage that tells the visitor a bit better what we
  have to offer.
- Provide simple installation instructions. Part of this initiative is building
  proper release artifacts in the pipeline (see
  [#1721](https://github.com/probe-rs/probe-rs/pull/1721)).
- Make the entry into `probe-rs` usage even easier.
  - Explain how one uses `probe-rs run` properly.
  - How to troubleshoot
    - How to enable logs
    - What are common errors
      - Can we also add hints in our error messages
  - Clean up docs a lot and explain in more detail.
- Add a searchable list of provided targets with information about each target.

## Development

[Install](https://deno.land/manual@v1.36.3/getting_started/installation) deno
which is the JS runtime to generate all webpage docs.

You need a GitHub API token with repository read access to circumvent API rate
limiting. Store it in the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable for the deno
process to pick up. Run `deno task serve` in this repository root.

Commit message:

Make development section in README.md more explicit (#122)
* Make development section in README.md more explicit

* Fix typos in README.md development section

README.md, after:

# The new probe.rs webpage

## Goals

- Create a more appealing frontpage that tells the visitor a bit better what we
  have to offer.
- Provide simple installation instructions. Part of this initiative is building
  proper release artifacts in the pipeline (see
  [#1721](https://github.com/probe-rs/probe-rs/pull/1721)).
- Make the entry into `probe-rs` usage even easier.
  - Explain how one uses `probe-rs run` properly.
  - How to troubleshoot
    - How to enable logs
    - What are common errors
      - Can we also add hints in our error messages
  - Clean up docs a lot and explain in more detail.
- Add a searchable list of provided targets with information about each target.

## Development

[Install](https://deno.land/manual@v1.36.3/getting_started/installation) deno
which is the JS runtime to generate all webpage docs.

Then locally serve the documentation from the root of this repository. Be
patient, it may take a while on the first run.

```
$ deno task serve
```

When the documentation preview is ready and gets served, you will be greeted
with something like:

```
🍾 Site built into ./target
  129 files generated in 62.64 seconds

  Server started at:
  http://localhost:3000/ (local)
  http://192.0.2.3:3000/ (network)
```

When doing heavy development, you might end in the need to provide a GitHub API
Token (for fetching the probe-rs repository in the background). See
[here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens)
for how to get yours, save it to a file like `~/.probe-rs-github-token` and
provide it to deno via the environment variable `GITHUB_TOKEN` as follows:

```
$ export GITHUB_TOKEN=$(cat ~/.probe-rs-github-token)
```
